# Research-Project---Bosch
Behaviour of Pupil Diameter in Authoritative Control Interventions


The study investigated the validity of pupil diameter as a physiological measure during an intervention where the automated system completely blocks the driver's control input or takes control away from the driver. Eighteen participants were repeatedly exposed to four scenarios in two different HMI designs in a driving simulator. Driving data , i.e. control inputs, participants’ pupil diameters as well as subjective data from post-drive questionnaires across scenarios were used for a three-part analysis to explore validity of the pupil diameter signal. Results showed that most participants’ pupil diameters are increasing during interventions in all the scenarios, which means that pupil diameter reflects the effect of interventions. Furthermore, statistical tests to see if scenario criticality and intervention type were associated with pupil diameter show no significance for either factor. Therefore, these factors were removed as a level and a best-performing linear mixed effects model was used to test the influence of other variables measured in this study that affect pupil diameter. Intra-class correlation values show that there are inevitable inter-individual differences in pupil diameter betwen participants. Moreover, a startle response, i.e, adapting to scenarios over time, was absent in these signals.Pupil diameter is therefore not a significant measure of intervention effects in this type of driving intervention study; other signals such as acceleration, braking and steering inputs are more reflective of intervention effects.
